<!---
   Copyright Axis Communications AB
   For a full list of individual contributors, please see the commit history.

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--->
# Test Engineer

The test engineers role is to create collections of recipes that defines what to test and to check the results of the tests that have been run by ETOS.

## Responsibilities of a test engineer

- Creating collections of recipes. 
- [ETOS Client](https://pypi.org/project/etos-client/)
- Checking test results

## Creating collections of recipes

A recipe collection is a collection of recipes that defines what to run in a testrun. A recipe collection is defined in a JSON file, which contains a list of recipes and their parameters.

While the test automation engineer is responsible for creating the individual recipes and their parameters, the test engineer is responsible for creating the collections of recipes that defines what to run in a testrun.

Preferably the test recipes should be available in a user-friendly format through some sort of tool. We (the ETOS maintainers) do not provide any tools for this, but we are open to suggestions and contributions in this area.

An example test collection can be found [here](../getting_started/index.md#creating-a-recipe-collection), but, again, as a test engineer you are only responsible for the collection of recipes, not the individual recipes themselves.

## ETOS Client

The ETOS client is the recommended way to start testruns in ETOS, as it provides a simple and easy-to-use interface. The ETOS client is a command-line tool that allows you to start testruns, check the status of testruns and retrieve the results of testruns.

More information about the ETOS client can be found in the [ETOS client documentation](https://pypi.org/project/etos-client/) and a guide on how to use the ETOS client can be found [here](../getting_started/index.md).

## Checking test results

After a testrun has been started, the test engineer is responsible for checking the results of the tests that have been run by ETOS. This includes both checking the results of individual tests and checking the overall results of the testrun.

The ETOS client will download any artifacts that are generated by the tests, so the test engineer can check the results of the tests by looking at the downloaded artifacts. The ETOS client also provides a, very minimal, summary of the test results, which can be used to quickly check the overall results of the testrun.

For a better experience when checking test results, ETOS published Eiffel events which can be used instead. These events can be consumed by any event consumer, such as the [Eiffel GraphQL API](https://github.com/eiffel-community/eiffel-graphql-api) but can also be consumed by custom event consumers that can visualize the test results in a better way than ETOS can.
